# SDLC

When it comes to creating programs for a customer, it is important to understand the needs of the customer in an out. Just knowing that they want a certain feature may be enough, but often it is not. Sometimes, you also need to know WHY they want that feature or what to what use it will be implemented for, or else you may create the feature, but in a different way than the customer envisioned. The more detail, the better. At least to an extent. Creating "user stories" can be a huge help in this regard, because it makes the functions and features of a program more personable. If you know why you are creating a certain feature, and for whom, it will be easier to create it correctly the first time without needing to go back and tweak it later. As I move forward in not only my student career, but possibly in my professional one as well, I hope to really focus on solid communication and keeping program design on a personable level. In my admittedly limited experience, creating a program to get a grade isn't as satisfying as creating a program specific for a group of people, knowing how they are going to use it and why. Keeping it personable makes me actually WANT to continue working on a project. Wanting to be diligent and do the best work you can is even more important when working as part of a team. When I am part of a team, it isn't just the end-user relying on me, but my teammates as well. Being a good team member requires open communication, a decent work ethic, and maybe overall, empathy. Know what your teammates expect of you, and you keep the "rocking of the boat" to a minimum. Less drama means more productivity and less personal stress. In that sense, doing everything you can to be a good team member doesn't just help the team, but it helps the individual as well.
